We have this nice eslint rc.js file.
This is our eslint config.
We're gonna make a couple changes here,
in the extends array.
So it's giving us like
the recommended set of eslint rules.
That's, that's what extends means here,
right?
It lets you take in sort of
rule sets as a starting point.
And then you can turn individual rules
on off, after opting into a rule set,
so it's sort of like what's your
baseline which you can then tweak.
So this is just general recommended
eslint plug, like best practices,
which is for JavaScript and
TypeScript code.
There's a TypeScript eslint
recommended set of things.
I would recommend if you're
gonna include this one,
you always include the second one as well.
It sort of overrides some rules.
In eslint, like, for example,
no unused variables.
TypeScript has a way of doing
that through the compiler.
If you remember, in our ts config we
had like no unused down here, right?
So some of these things we want to
rely on TypeScript handling for us.
So, it makes a lot of
sense to turn this on.
There's there's a third one we want
to enable, plugin at TypeScript.
There it is.
So it's the same one is above.
You're just adding these words.
It's Typescript recommended,
requiring type checking.
And the point of this rule set,
it's to include rules that actually
use type information in order
to perform linting, right?
For example, you could have rules
about forbidding explicit ns,
and you can only find that
information through type-checking.
So I tend to enable this one as well.
Next, we're gonna and
look at the parser options.
So this is another important change here.
We have to tell because
eslint is using TypeScript to
analyze code and
to provide information about types,
we have to tell it where
the tsconfig is that we're using.
So we're actually gonna
just write project true and
we'll say tsconfig root dir and
then dir name.
This is something that's available
in like all Node js modules,
it's just a global value that's available.
It's the current directory
of where the files located.
So this will help eslint
find our tsconfig.
Okay, two last adjustments
we have to make.
There's a section called is
do we have it populated yet?
Yes, we do.
Overrides.
So the purpose of overrides
is to describe local parts
of our project where rules
may apply differently.
So in this case, I've got this was
part of what was generated for me,
right, I didn't write this this
was like when we did eslint--net.
This is part of what that's been out.
It's set up some special
rules that apply to this file
that we're looking at right now.
Node true is what's letting
us safely access dirname.
We're gonna add another override here.
It doesn't really matter where you add it,
in this case it doesn't matter, but
just remember these are processed
from top to bottom.
So in cases where overrides may overlap,
like if you said,
here's a rule for all typescript files
in the project, and here's a rule for
all files in this folder.
Sometimes you might meet both conditions
and so you wanna arrange your override
such that the first one that you want to
be checked is higher up in this array.
So we're gonna say file, Tests,
and I want to all TypeScript
files within a tests folder that
we're about to create in the next step.
Then for env, I want node true,
and not Mocha true, but Jest true.
Jest, if you've ever used it before,
it comes with some function
names like describe and
this will make sure that like
we get the types for jest there.
And one last thing here in the rules for
eslint itself and
this override here we want
to add two more things.
You can copy this right from the course
website, oops, that is weird.
I'll just go to the course
website over here,
trying to copy paste from my iPad
like that's gonna work seamlessly.
Here we go.
These two lines, and
I'll explain what they do in a moment.
Okay, the first line it
this actually disables,
remember that that eslint entry
we added to extends requiring
type checking this thing
up here this disables that.
So it's nice to be able to say look across
my whole project in general I want to set
of rules that require type
checking enabled, but
in this one place, turn them off.
I just don't want it yelling at
us about our eslint rc file and
then no unsafe assignment.
This is what would let you like assign an
any to a property We're turning that off.
And we're now ready to lint, yarn, lint.
We should see some errors.
Two problems.
We've got two problems.
This means it's working.
Nicely formatted indications
of what's going on.
So let's in vs code, on a Mac,
at least I can command click and
it'll take me to the file index.ts.
Sorry, I'm gonna save this here.
And let's find, I'm looking at this
little red dot in my gutter here.
Okay, here's the problem.
What's the problem?
Invalid operand for a plus operation.
Operands must be a number or string.
And what type is it?
It's an empty object.
Folks who have taken the intermediate
TypeScript course, what's this type?
Actually, the easier question is,
what can't this type be?
It's almost a top type.
>> Can't be null or undefined?
>> Can't be null or undefined.
So it's any non-null or
non-undefined value.
You know, eslint's telling
us this might be an error.
This seems weird.
I can get rid of this error by
deliberately coercing it to a string.
Do that, there are a couple of
other things I could do, but
if I said, yeah, I do want this
to be serialized to a string.
The string constructor takes in an any,
and so
it's perfectly happy
to take this value in.
Save that file.
Let's run the linter again.
And there we go.
It seems to pass.
This is a great time to make a git commit,
because we have linting
working in our project now.
So we had a couple questions online.
First thing I wanna point out is,
somebody had trouble
where they were seeing the linting
experience that I saw.
In their terminal right where they
saw these, it's out of my buffer now,
where they saw you know the lint
errors and the lines and
the files that was all coming
as part of the terminal output.
When they ran yard lint, but
they didn't see the equivalent
experience in their visual studio code.
And this is pretty common when you
are just adding linting to a project.
So one of the big challenging things
in a large scale TypeScript project
is watching various files for
different things gets quite expensive.
So VS code doesn't pick up
immediately on the fact that like
there's a new TypeScript file here and
there's a new eslint config and
eslint has been installed
in this little folder.
The solution for
that I'm doing command Shift+P,
this usually solves the problem.
You restart the eslint server,
you're turning it off and on again, and
at that point, it's gonna begin by
taking a top-level examination of what
are we dealing with here, and often
that'll get your CLI commands, eslint.
And your in editor red squiggles under
your code, it'll get those in sync.
Where you're seeing the same things,
which is great.
VS Code has this great problems
tab where if I were to have
some problematic syntax here,
it points it out here.
It's important to keep your in
editor eslint working well.